	You’re probably expecting me to say some more stupid shit, to try & get you to do things you’ll never be able to do, 
but no, I’m done with that. This is merely an explanation for my sudden, impulsive behavior, & the decision I had to make. 
Because, if I don’t explain things, how are we supposed to grow? So here it goes.
	Basically I was listening to “Green Day” at the pub, after I had trouble sleeping. & when I heard the verse 
“You can’t go forcing something if it’s just not right.” I knew I just had to let you go. It’s easier for me to live without you, 
than it is to live with you. I understand, that after a serious relationship that just ended recently, you’re not looking to jump 
into another one. I get it. & I also get that I love you. & that if I can’t talk to you everyday, & if you don’t love me, I’m going 
to be an insecure wreck, a ball of nerves, a spazz, a dweeb, & a mess. I know how I am. I basically gotta stick with dating 
stupid bitches that don’t understand me, think they can change me, so I won’t fall in love, & still be able to get some action. 
Or I just need to remain single & continue to get my life together. I don’t have a real place to shack up, or even score. 
I need independent broads that wanna take me home, & throw me in the gutter when they’re done with me. I’m so unrealistic. How could 
we even work out a relationship? We gonna screw in my car? On my couch? At your place with your roommate? Gimme a break. I’m stupid.
	Now that I’ve decided I’m not trying to get with you, I feel like my old self. I’m a little bit angry, a little bit disappointed, 
but not regretful. & not anxious. You were really cool with me, you gave me like, a second chance to not be a spazz, but I couldn’t do it. 
I couldn’t handle being kept at arms length when I love you so much. So I thank you for being cool. I hope I didn’t waste too much of your 
time. I hope I didn’t waste to much of your emotional energy. You just have fun being single, get drunk, get high, be young, have fun, 
be good to your friends, basically just keep being yourself, don’t change for anybody.
	I guess that’s it. If you wanna be friends, that’s cool, whatevs. You don’t have a FaceBook, & I’ll probably never text you, but 
if I see you around maybe I’ll say “hi”, but probably not. I wish you good luck. Wish me some, you can probably tell I could use some ;)
-JJ
